solutions/avd/docs/prerequisites.md, before:

# Azure Virtual Desktop Solution

[**Home**](../readme.md) | [**Features**](./features.md) | [**Design**](./design.md) | [**Prerequisites**](./prerequisites.md) | [**Post Deployment**](./post.md) | [**Troubleshooting**](./troubleshooting.md)

## Prerequisites

To successfully deploy this solution, you will need to ensure the following prerequisites have been completed:

- Obtained a [supported operating system license](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/overview#requirements)
- Landing zone deployed in Azure:
  - Virtual network and subnet(s)
  - Deployed and configured domain services if you plan to domain or hybrid join the session hosts
- Azure Subscription Owner: this solution contains many role assignments so the principal deploying this solution will need to be a Subscription Owner for a successful deployment.
- Create a service principal or user account to domain join the session hosts if applicable. Azure AD joined session hosts do not apply.
- Create a security group for your AVD users and if applicable, ensure the principal has synchronized with your domain services (Azure AD DS) or directory (AD DS).
- Azure Files for FSLogix:
  - If you plan to deploy Azure Files with a Service Endpoint, be sure the subnet for the sessions hosts has the "Azure Storage" service endpoint enabled on the subnet.
  - If you plan to deploy Azure Files with a Private Endpoint, ensure the [Private Endpoint Network Policy has been disabled](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/disable-private-endpoint-network-policy). Otherwise, the private endpoint resource will fail to deploy.
- Azure NetApp Files for FSLogix:
  - [Register the resource provider](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-register)
  - [Delegate a subnet to Azure NetApp Files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-delegate-subnet)
  - [Enable the shared AD feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/create-active-directory-connections#shared_ad): this feature is required if you plan to deploy more than one domain joined NetApp account in the same Azure subscription and region.  As of 1/31/2022, this feature is in "public preview" in Azure Cloud and not available in Azure US Government.

Commit message:

Added necessary permissions for domain join

solutions/avd/docs/prerequisites.md, after:

# Azure Virtual Desktop Solution

[**Home**](../readme.md) | [**Features**](./features.md) | [**Design**](./design.md) | [**Prerequisites**](./prerequisites.md) | [**Post Deployment**](./post.md) | [**Troubleshooting**](./troubleshooting.md)

## Prerequisites

To successfully deploy this solution, you will need to ensure the following prerequisites have been completed:

- Obtained a [supported operating system license](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/overview#requirements)
- Landing zone deployed in Azure:
  - Virtual network and subnet(s)
  - Deployed and configured domain services if you plan to domain or hybrid join the session hosts
- Azure Subscription Owner: this solution contains many role assignments so the principal deploying this solution will need to be a Subscription Owner for a successful deployment.
- Create a service principal or user account to domain join the session hosts with the following permissions:
  - "Join the Domain" on the domain
  - "Create Computer" on the parent OU or domain
  - "Delete Computer" on the parent OU or domain

  > NOTE: This does not apply to Azure AD joined session hosts.

- Create a security group for your AVD users and if applicable, ensure the principal has synchronized with your domain services (Azure AD DS) or directory (AD DS).
- Azure Files for FSLogix:
  - If you plan to deploy Azure Files with a Service Endpoint, be sure the subnet for the sessions hosts has the "Azure Storage" service endpoint enabled on the subnet.
  - If you plan to deploy Azure Files with a Private Endpoint, ensure the [Private Endpoint Network Policy has been disabled](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/private-link/disable-private-endpoint-network-policy). Otherwise, the private endpoint resource will fail to deploy.
- Azure NetApp Files for FSLogix:
  - [Register the resource provider](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-register)
  - [Delegate a subnet to Azure NetApp Files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-delegate-subnet)
  - [Enable the shared AD feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/create-active-directory-connections#shared_ad): this feature is required if you plan to deploy more than one domain joined NetApp account in the same Azure subscription and region.  As of 1/31/2022, this feature is in "public preview" in Azure Cloud and not available in Azure US Government.
