README.md, before:



The code in this repository is forked from [this](https://github.com/jamasten/Azure) repository managed from jamasten.  The upstream repository is fairly active and is merged in frequently.

To allow for this repository to be moduled in from other terraform modules the main entry point has been wrapped up in a terraform main.tf file.  There are many parameters, all should have description in main.tf, that can be passed in but most are defaulted.  Below is an example for the battelledev.onmicrosoft.us tenant including the parameters that are not defaulted. 

`terraform apply -var='domain_name=battelledev.onmicrosoft.us' -var='dc_admins_group_object_id=0b2cecb7-2c4e-41a2-b6c9-a10c0568a373' -var='wvd_object_id=2a0d5980-c27d-4353-ad5c-f04728028a13' -var='resource_name_suffix=mvdev2' -var='ou_path=OU=AADDC Computers,DC=battelledev,DC=onmicrosoft,DC=us' -var='subnet=gold-wookie-dev' -var='virtual_network=gold-wookie-dev' -var='virtual_network_resource_group=gold-wookie-dev`

During the terraform deployment an Azure AD group is created named according to the resource_name_suffix terraform variable.  In order to gain access to the deployed AVD workspace uses must be added to this group.

Once an azure workspace is deployed it can be connected to via the [Windows Desktop client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-windows-7-10).

# Azure

The code in this repository is code that I developed and use to:

## Directories

* **solutions**: test customer scenarios & develop solutions around specific pain points
* **subscription**: deploy my lab containing core infrastructure & services to support my solutions
* **utilities**: solve problems around governance and management

Commit message:

adding blurb about the shortcommings of terraform destroy for deployment templates

README.md, after:



The code in this repository is forked from [this](https://github.com/jamasten/Azure) repository managed from jamasten.  The upstream repository is fairly active and is merged in frequently.

To allow for this repository to be moduled in from other terraform modules the main entry point has been wrapped up in a terraform main.tf file.  There are many parameters, all should have description in main.tf, that can be passed in but most are defaulted.  Below is an example for the battelledev.onmicrosoft.us tenant including the parameters that are not defaulted. 

`terraform apply -var='domain_name=battelledev.onmicrosoft.us' -var='dc_admins_group_object_id=0b2cecb7-2c4e-41a2-b6c9-a10c0568a373' -var='wvd_object_id=2a0d5980-c27d-4353-ad5c-f04728028a13' -var='resource_name_suffix=mvdev2' -var='ou_path=OU=AADDC Computers,DC=battelledev,DC=onmicrosoft,DC=us' -var='subnet=gold-wookie-dev' -var='virtual_network=gold-wookie-dev' -var='virtual_network_resource_group=gold-wookie-dev`

During the terraform deployment an Azure AD group is created named according to the resource_name_suffix terraform variable.  In order to gain access to the deployed AVD workspace uses must be added to this group.

Once an azure workspace is deployed it can be connected to via the [Windows Desktop client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/user-documentation/connect-windows-7-10).

Unfortunately, terraform destroy will not delete the resources deployed by the azurerm_subscription_template_deployment.  For now, to delete the resources deployed by this template all the session hosts must be removed from the Host Pool prior to manually deleting the infra and hosts resource groups.

# Azure

The code in this repository is code that I developed and use to:

## Directories

* **solutions**: test customer scenarios & develop solutions around specific pain points
* **subscription**: deploy my lab containing core infrastructure & services to support my solutions
* **utilities**: solve problems around governance and management
